
        riverrun, past Eve and Adam's, from swerve of shore to bend
    of bay, brings us by a commodius vicus of recirculation back to
    Howth Castle and Environs.
        Sir Tristram, violer d'amores, fr'over the short sea, had passen-
    core rearrived from North Armorica on this side the scraggy
    isthmus of Europe Minor to wielderfight his penisolate war: nor
    had topsawyer's rocks by the stream Oconee exaggerated themselse
    to Laurens County's gorgios while they went doublin their mumper
    all the time: nor avoice from afire bellowsed mishe mishe to
    tauftauf thuartpeatrick: not yet, though venissoon after, had a
    kidscad buttended a bland old isaac: not yet, though all's fair in
    vanessy, were sosie sesthers wroth with twone nathandjoe. Rot a
    peck of pa's malt had Jhem or Shen brewed by arclight and rory
    end to the regginbrow was to be seen ringsome on the aquaface.
        The fall (bababadalgharaghtakamminarronnkonnbronntonner-
    ronntuonnthunntrovarrhounawnskawntoohoohoordenenthur-
    nuk!) of a once wallstrait oldparr is retaled early in bed and later
    on life down through all christian minstrelsy. The great fall of the
    offwall entailed at such short notice the pftjschute of Finnegan,
    erse solid man, that the humptyhillhead of humself prumptly sends
    an unquiring one well to the west in quest of his tumptytumtoes:
    and their upturnpikepointandplace is at the knock out in the park
    where oranges have been laid to rust upon the green since dev-
    linsfirst loved livvy. 

4 UP

        What clashes here of wills gen wonts, oystrygods gaggin fishy-
    gods! Brékkek Kékkek Kékkek Kékkek! Kóax Kóax Kóax! Ualu
    Ualu Ualu! Quaouauh! Where the Baddelaries partisans are still
    out to mathmaster Malachus Micgranes and the Verdons cata-
    pelting the camibalistics out of the Whoyteboyce of Hoodie 
    Head. Assiegates and boomeringstroms. Sod's brood, be me fear!
    Sanglorians, save! Arms apeal with larms, appalling. Killykill-
    killy: a toll, a toll. What chance cuddleys, what cashels aired 
    and ventilated! What bidimetoloves sinduced by what tegotetab-
    solvers! What true feeling for their's hayair with what strawng 
    voice of false jiccup! O here here how hoth sprowled met the
    duskt the father of fornicationists but, (O my shining stars and
    body!) how hath fanespanned most high heaven the skysign of
    soft advertisement! But was iz? Iseut? Ere were sewers? The oaks
    of ald now they lie in peat yet elms leap where askes lay. Phall if
    you but will, rise you must: and none so soon either shall the
    pharce for the nunce come to a setdown secular phoenish.
        Bygmester Finnegan, of the Stuttering Hand, freemen's mau-
    rer, lived in the broadest way immarginable in his rushlit toofar-
    back for messuages before joshuan judges had given us numbers
    or Helviticus committed deuteronomy (one yeastyday he sternely 
    struxk his tete in a tub for to watsch the future of his fates but ere
    he swiftly stook it out again, by the might of moses, the very wat-
    er was eviparated and all the guenneses had met their exodus so
    that ought to show you what a pentschanjeuchy chap he was!)
    and during mighty odd years this man of hod, cement and edi-
    fices in Toper's Thorp piled buildung supra buildung pon the
    banks for the livers by the Soangso. He addle liddle phifie Annie
    ugged the little craythur. Wither hayre in honds tuck up your part
    inher. Oftwhile balbulous, mithre ahead, with goodly trowel in
    grasp and ivoroiled overalls which he habitacularly fondseed, like
    Haroun Childeric Eggeberth he would caligulate by multiplicab-
    les the alltitude and malltitude until he seesaw by neatlight of the
    liquor wheretwin 'twas born, his roundhead staple of other days
    to rise in undress maisonry upstanded (joygrantit!), a waalworth 
    of a skyerscape of most eyeful hoyth entowerly, erigenating from 

5 UP

    next to nothing and celescalating the himals and all, hierarchitec-
    titiptitoploftical, with a burning bush abob off its baubletop and
    with larrons o'toolers clittering up and tombles a'buckets clotter-
    ing down.
        Of the first was he to bare arms and a name: Wassaily Boos-
    laeugh of Riesengeborg. His crest of huroldry, in vert with
    ancillars, troublant, argent, a hegoak, poursuivant, horrid, horned.
    His scutschum fessed, with archers strung, helio, of the second.
    Hootch is for husbandman handling his hoe. Hohohoho, Mister
    Finn, you're going to be Mister Finnagain! Comeday morm and,
    O, you're vine! Sendday's eve and, ah, you're vinegar! Hahahaha,
    Mister Funn, you're going to be fined again!
        What then agentlike brought about that tragoady thundersday
    this municipal sin business? Our cubehouse still rocks as earwitness 
    to the thunder of his arafatas but we hear also through successive
    ages that shebby choruysh of unkalified muzzlenimiissilehims that
    would blackguardise the whitestone ever hurtleturtled out of
    heaven. Stay us wherefore in our search for tighteousness, O Sus-
    tainer, what time we rise and when we take up to toothmick and
    before we lump down upown our leatherbed and in the night and
    at the fading of the stars! For a nod to the nabir is better than wink
    to the wabsanti. Otherways wesways like that provost scoffing 
    bedoueen the jebel and the jpysian sea. Cropherb the crunch-
    bracken shall decide. Then we'll know if the feast is a flyday. She
    has a gift of seek on site and she allcasually ansars helpers, the
    dreamydeary. Heed! Heed! It may half been a missfired brick, as
    some say, or it mought have been due to a collupsus of his back
    promises, as others looked at it. (There extand by now one thou-
    sand and one stories, all told, of the same). But so sore did abe 
    ite ivvy's holired abbles, (what with the wallhall's horrors of rolls-
    rights, carhacks, stonengens, kisstvanes, tramtrees, fargobawlers,
    autokinotons, hippohobbilies, streetfleets, tournintaxes, mega-
    phoggs, circuses and wardsmoats and basilikerks and aeropagods 
    and the hoyse and the jollybrool and the peeler in the coat and
    the mecklenburk bitch bite at his ear and the merlinburrow bur-
    rocks and his fore old porecourts, the bore the more, and his 

6 UP

    blightblack workingstacks at twelvepins a dozen and the noobi-
    busses sleighding along Safetyfirst Street and the derryjellybies
    snooping around Tell-No-Tailors' Corner and the fumes and the
    hopes and the strupithump of his ville's indigenous romekeepers,
    homesweepers, domecreepers, thurum and thurum in fancymud
    murumd and all the uproor from all the aufroofs, a roof for may 
    and a reef for hugh butt under his bridge suits tony) wan warn-
    ing Phill filt tippling full. His howd feeled heavy, his hoddit did
    shake. (There was a wall of course in erection) Dimb! He stot-
    tered from the latter. Damb! he was dud. Dumb! Mastabatoom,
    mastabadtomm, when a mon merries his lute is all long. For
    whole the world to see.
        Shize? I should shee! Macool, Macool, orra whyi deed ye diie?
    of a trying thirstay mournin? Sobs they sighdid at Fillagain's
    chrissormiss wake, all the hoolivans of the nation, prostrated in
    their consternation and their duodisimally profusive plethora of
    ululation. There was plumbs and grumes and cheriffs and citherers 
    and raiders and cinemen too. And the all gianed in with the shout-
    most shoviality. Agog and magog and the round of them agrog.
    To the continuation of that celebration until Hanandhunigan's
    extermination! Some in kinkin corass, more, kankan keening.
    Belling him up and filling him down. He's stiff but he's steady is
    Priam Olim! 'Twas he was the dacent gaylabouring youth. Sharpen 
    his pillowscone, tap up his bier! E'erawhere in this whorl would ye
    hear sich a din again? With their deepbrow fundigs and the dusty 
    fidelios. They laid him brawdawn alanglast bed. With a bockalips 
    of finisky fore his feet. And a barrowload of guenesis hoer his head.
    Tee the tootal of the fluid hang the twoddle of the fuddled, O!
        Hurrah, there is but young gleve for the owl globe wheels in
    view which is tautaulogically the same thing. Well, Him a being
    so on the flounder of his bulk like an overgrown babeling, let wee
    peep, see, at Hom, well, see peegee ought he ought, platterplate. 
    Hum! From Shopalist to Bailywick or from ashtun to baronoath
    or from Buythebanks to Roundthehead or from the foot of the
    bill to ireglint's eye he calmly extensolies. And all the way (a
    horn!) from fiord to fjell his baywinds' oboboes shall wail him

7 UP

    rockbound (hoahoahoah!) in swimswamswum and all the livvy-
    long night, the delldale dalppling night, the night of bluerybells,
    her flittaflute in tricky trochees (O carina! O carina!) wake him.
    With her issavan essavans and her patterjackmartins about all
    them inns and ouses. Tilling a teel of a tum, telling a toll of a tea-
    ry turty Taubling. Grace before Glutton. For what we are, gifs 
    a gross if we are, about to believe. So pool the begg and pass the
    kish for crawsake. Omen. So sigh us. Grampupus is fallen down
    but grinny sprids the boord. Whase on the joint of a desh? Fin-
    foefom the Fush. Whase be his baken head? A loaf of Singpan-
    try's Kennedy bread. And whase hitched to the hop in his tayle?
    A glass of Danu U'Dunnell's foamous olde Dobbelin ayle. But,
    lo, as you would quaffoff his fraudstuff and sink teeth through
    that pyth of a flowerwhite bodey behold of him as behemoth for
    he is noewhemoe. Finiche! Only a fadograph of a yestern scene.
    Almost rubicund Salmosalar, ancient fromout the ages of the Ag-
    apemonides, he is smolten in our mist, woebecanned and packt
    away. So that meal's dead off for summan, schlook, schlice and
    goodridhirring.
        Yet may we not see still the brontoichthyan form outlined a-
    slumbered, even in our own nighttime by the sedge of the trout-
    ling stream that Bronto loved and Brunto has a lean on. Hiccubat 
    edilis. Apud libertinam parvulam. Whatif she be in flags or flitters,
    reekierags or sundyechosies, with a mint of mines or beggar a
    pinnyweight. Arrah, sure, we all love little Anny Ruiny, or, we
    mean to say, lovelittle Anna Rayiny, when unda her brella, mid
    piddle med puddle, she ninnygoes nannygoes nancing by. Yoh!
    Brontolone slaaps, yoh snoores. Upon Benn Heather, in Seeple
    Isout too. The cranic head on him, caster of his reasons, peer yu-
    thner in yondmist. Whooth? His clay feet, swarded in verdigrass,
    stick up starck where he last fellonem, by the mund of the maga-
    zine wall, where our maggy seen all, with her sisterin shawl.
    While over against this belles' alliance beyind Ill Sixty, ollol-
    lowed ill! bagsides of the fort, bom, tarabom, tarabom, lurk the
    ombushes, the site of the lyffing-in-wait of the upjock and hock-
    ums. Hence when the clouds roll by, jamey, a proudseye view is

8 UP

    enjoyable of our mounding's mass, now Wallinstone national
    museum, with, in some greenish distance, the charmful water-
    loose country and the two quitewhite villagettes who hear show
    of themselves so gigglesomes minxt the follyages, the prettilees!
    Penetrators are permitted into the museomound free. Welsh and
    the Paddy Patkinses, one shelenk! Redismembers invalids of old
    guard find poussepousse pousseypram to sate the sort of their butt.
    For her passkey supply to the janitrix, the mistress Kathe. Tip.
        This the way to the museyroom. Mind your hats goan in!
    Now yiz are in the Willingdone Museyroom. This is a Prooshi-
    ous gunn. This is a ffrinch. Tip. This is the flag of the Prooshi-
    ous, the Cap and Soracer. This is the bullet that byng the flag of
    the Prooshious. This is the ffrinch that fire on the Bull that bang
    the flag of the Prooshious. Saloos the Crossgunn! Up with your
    pike and fork! Tip. (Bullsfoot! Fine!) This is the triplewon hat of
    Lipoleum. Tip. Lipoleumhat. This is the Willingdone on his
    same white harse, the Cokenhape. This is the big Sraughter Wil-
    lingdone, grand and magentic in his goldtin spurs and his ironed
    dux and his quarterbrass woodyshoes and his magnate's gharters 
    and his bangkok's best and goliar's goloshes and his pullupon-
    easyan wartrews. This is his big wide harse. Tip. This is the three
    lipoleum boyne grouching down in the living detch. This is an
    inimyskilling inglis, this is a scotcher grey, this is a davy, stoop-
    ing. This is the bog lipoleum mordering the lipoleum beg. A
    Gallawghurs argaumunt. This is the petty lipoleum boy that
    was nayther bag nor bug. Assaye, assaye! Touchole Fitz Tuo-
    mush. Dirty MacDyke. And Hairy O'Hurry. All of them
    arminus-varminus. This is Delian alps. This is Mont Tivel,
    this is Mont Tipsey, this is the Grand Mons Injun. This is the
    crimealine of the alps hooping to sheltershock the three lipoleums.
    This is the jinnies with their legahorns feinting to read in their
    handmade's book of stralegy while making their war undisides
    the Willingdone. The jinnies is a cooin her hand and the jinnies is
    a ravin her hair and the Willingdone git the band up. This is big
    Willingdone mormorial tallowscoop Wounderworker obscides
    on the flanks of the jinnies. Sexcaliber hrosspower. Tip. This

9 UP

    is me Belchum sneaking his phillippy out of his most Awful
    Grimmest Sunshat Cromwelly. Looted. This is the jinnies' hast-
    ings dispatch for to irrigate the Willingdone. Dispatch in thin
    red lines cross the shortfront of me Belchum. Yaw, yaw, yaw!
    Leaper Orthor. Fear siecken! Fieldgaze thy tiny frow. Hugact-
    ing. Nap. That was the tictacs of the jinnies for to fontannoy the
    Willingdone. Shee, shee, shee! The jinnies is jillous agincourting
    all the lipoleums. And the lipoleums is gonn boycottoncrezy onto
    the one Willingdone. And the Willingdone git the band up. This
    is bode Belchum, bonnet to busby, breaking his secred word with a
    ball up his ear to the Willingdone. This is the Willingdone's hur-
    old dispitchback. Dispitch desployed on the regions rare of me
    Belchum. Salamangra! Ayi, ayi, ayi! Cherry jinnies. Figtreeyou!
    Damn fairy ann, Voutre. Willingdone. That was the first joke of
    Willingdone, tic for tac. Hee, hee, hee! This is me Belchum in
    his twelvemile cowchooks, weet, tweet and stampforth foremost,
    footing the camp for the jinnies. Drink a sip, drankasup, for he's
    as sooner buy a guinness than he'd stale store stout. This is Roo-
    shious balls. This is a ttrinch. This is mistletropes. This is Canon
    Futter with the popynose. After his hundred days' indulgence.
    This is the blessed. Tarra's widdars! This is jinnies in the bonny 
    bawn blooches. This is lipoleums in the rowdy howses. This is the
    Willingdone, by the splinters of Cork, order fire. Tonnerre!
    (Bullsear! Play!) This is camelry, this is floodens, this is the
    solphereens in action, this is their mobbily, this is panickburns.
    Almeidagad! Arthiz too loose! This is Willingdone cry. Brum!
    Brum! Cumbrum! This is jinnies cry. Underwetter! Goat
    strip Finnlambs! This is jinnies rinning away to their ouster-
    lists dowan a bunkersheels. With a nip nippy nip and a trip trip-
    py trip so airy. For their heart's right there. Tip. This is me Bel-
    chum's tinkyou tankyou silvoor plate for citchin the crapes in
    the cool of his canister. Poor the pay! This is the bissmark of the
    marathon merry of the jinnies they left behind them. This is the
    Willingdone branlish his same marmorial tallowscoop Sophy-
    Key-Po for his royal divorsion on the rinnaway jinnies. Gam-
    bariste della porca! Dalaveras fimmieras! This is the pettiest 

10 UP

    of the lipoleums, Toffeethief, that spy on the Willingdone from
    his big white harse, the Capeinhope. Stonewall Willingdone
    is an old maxy montrumeny. Lipoleums is nice hung bushel-
    lors. This is hiena hinnessy laughing alout at the Willing-
    done. This is lipsyg dooley krieging the funk from the hinnessy.
    This is the hinndoo Shimar Shin between the dooley boy and the
    hinnessy. Tip. This is the wixy old Willingdone picket up the
    half of the threefoiled hat of lipoleums fromoud of the bluddle
    filth. This is the hinndoo waxing ranjymad for a bombshoob.
    This is the Willingdone hanking the half of the hat of lipoleums
    up the tail on the buckside of his big white harse. Tip. That was
    the last joke of Willingdone. Hit, hit, hit! This is the same white
    harse of the Willingdone, Culpenhelp, waggling his tailoscrupp
    with the half of a hat of lipoleums to insoult on the hinndoo see-
    boy. Hney, hney, hney! (Bullsrag! Foul!) This is the seeboy,
    madrashattaras, upjump and pumpim, cry to the Willingdone:
    Ap Pukkaru! Pukka Yurap! This is the Willingdone, bornstable
    ghentleman, tinders his maxbotch to the cursigan Shimar Shin.
    Basucker youstead! This is the dooforhim seeboy blow the whole
    of the half of the hat of lipoleums off of the top of the tail on the
    back of his big wide harse. Tip (Bullseye! Game!) How Copen-
    hagen ended. This way the museyroom. Mind your boots goan
    out.
        Phew!
        What a warm time we were in there but how keling is here the
    airabouts! We nowhere she lives but you mussna tell annaone for
    the lamp of Jig-a-Lanthern! It's a candlelittle houthse of a month
    and one windies. Downadown, High Downadown. And num-
    mered quaintlymine. And such reasonable weather too! The wa-
    grant wind's awalt'zaround the piltdowns and on every blasted
    knollyrock (if you can spot fifty I spy four more) there's that
    gnarlybird ygathering, a runalittle, doalittle, preealittle, pouralittle,
    wipealittle, kicksalittle, severalittle, eatalittle, whinealittle, kenalittle,
    helfalittle, pelfalittle gnarlybird. A verytableland of bleakbardfields!
    Under his seven wrothschields lies one, Lumproar. His glav toside
    him. Skud ontorsed. Our pigeons pair are flewn for northcliffs.

11 UP

    The three of crows have flapped it southenly, kraaking of de
    baccle to the kvarters of that sky whence triboos answer; Wail,
    'tis well! She niver comes out when Thon's on shower or when
    Thon's flash with his Nixy girls or when Thon's blowing toom-
    cracks down the gaels of Thon. No nubo no! Neblas on you liv!
    Her would be too moochy afreet. Of Burymeleg and Bindme-
    rollingeyes and all the deed in the woe. Fe fo fom! She jist does
    hopes till byes will be byes. Here, and it goes on to appear now,
    she comes, a peacefugle, a parody's bird, a peri potmother,
    a pringlpik in the ilandiskippy, with peewee and powwows
    in beggybaggy on her bickybacky and a flick flask fleckflinging
    its pixylighting pacts' huemeramybows, picking here, pecking
    there, pussypussy plunderpussy. But it's the armitides toonigh,
    militopucos, and toomourn we wish for a muddy kissmans to the
    minutia workers and there's to be a gorgeups truce for happinest
    childher everwere. Come nebo me and suso sing the day we
    sallybright. She's burrowed the coacher's headlight the better to
    pry (who goes cute goes siocur and shoos aroun) and all spoiled
    goods go into her nabsack: curtrages and rattlin buttins, nappy
    spattees and flasks of all nations, clavicures and scampulars, maps,
    keys and woodpiles of haypennies and moonled brooches with
    bloodstaned breeks in em, boaston nightgarters and masses of
    shoesets and nickelly nacks and foder allmicheal and a lugly parson
    of cates and howitzer muchears and midgers and maggets, ills and
    ells with loffs of toffs and pleures of bells and the last sigh that
    come fro the hart (bucklied!) and the fairest sin the sunsaw
    (that's cearc!). With Kiss. Kiss Criss. Cross Criss. Kiss Cross.
    Undo lives 'end. Slain.
        How bootifull and how truetowife of her, when strengly fore-
    bidden, to steal our historic presents from the past postpropheti-
    cals so as to will make us all lordyheirs and ladymaidesses of a
    pretty nice kettle of fruit. She is livving in our midst of debt and
    laffing through all plores for us (her birth is uncontrollable), with
    a naperon for her mask and her sabboes kickin arias (so sair! so
    solly!) if yous ask me and I saack you. Hou! Hou! Gricks may
    rise and Troysirs fall (there being two sights for ever a picture)

12 UP

    for in the byways of high improvidence that's what makes life-
    work leaving and the world's a cell for citters to cit in. Let young
    wimman run away with the story and let young min talk smooth
    behind the butteler's back. She knows her knight's duty while
    Luntum sleeps. Did ye save any tin? says he. Did I what? with
    a grin says she. And we all like a marriedann because she is mer-
    cenary. Though the length of the land lies under liquidation
    (floote!) and there's nare a hairbrow nor an eyebush on this glau-
    brous phace of Herrschuft Whatarwelter she'll loan a vesta and
    hire some peat and sarch the shores her cockles to heat and she'll
    do all a turfwoman can to piff the business on. Paff. To puff the
    blaziness on. Poffpoff. And even if Humpty shell fall frumpty
    times as awkward again in the beardsboosoloom of all our grand
    remonstrancers there'll be iggs for the brekkers come to mourn-
    him, sunny side up with care. So true is it that therewhere's a
    turnover the tay is wet too and when you think you ketch sight
    of a hind make sure but you're cocked by a hin.
        Then as she is on her behaviourite job of quainance bandy,
    fruting for firstlings and taking her tithe, we may take our review
    of the two mounds to see nothing of the himples here as at else-
    where, by sixes and sevens, like so many heegills and collines,
    sitton aroont, scentbreeched ant somepotreek, in their swisha-
    wish satins and their taffetaffe tights, playing Wharton's Folly,
    at a treepurty on the planko in the purk. Stand up, mickos!
    Make strake for minnas! By order, Nicholas Proud. We may see
    and hear nothing if we choose of the shortlegged bergins off
    Corkhill or the bergamoors of Arbourhill or the bergagambols
    of Summerhill or the bergincellies of Miseryhill or the country-
    bossed bergones of Constitutionhill though every crowd has its
    several tones and every trade has its clever mechanics and each
    harmonical has a point of its own, Olaf's on the rise and Ivor's
    on the lift and Sitric's place's between them. But all they are all
    there scraping along to sneeze out a likelihood that will solve
    and salve life's robulous rebus, hopping round his middle like
    kippers on a griddle, O, as he lays dormont from the macroborg
    of Holdhard to the microbirg of Pied de Poudre. Behove this

13 UP

    sound of Irish sense. Really? Here English might be seen.
    Royally? One sovereign punned to petery pence. Regally? The
    silence speaks the scene. Fake!
        So This Is Dyoublong?
        Hush! Caution! Echoland!
        How charmingly exquisite! It reminds you of the outwashed 
    engravure that we used to be blurring on the blotchwall of his
    innkempt house. Used they? (I am sure that tiring chabelshovel-
    ler with the mujikal chocolat box, Miry Mitchel, is listening) I
    say, the remains of the outworn gravemure where used to be
    blurried the Ptollmens of the Incabus. Used we? (He is only pre-
    tendant to be stugging at the jubalee harp from a second existed
    lishener, Fiery Farrelly.) It is well known. Lokk for himself and
    see the old butte new. Dbln. W. K. O. O. Hear? By the mauso-
    lime wall. Fimfim fimfim. With a grand funferall. Fumfum fum-
    fum. 'Tis optophone which ontophanes. List! Wheatstone's
    magic lyer. They will be tuggling foriver. They will be lichening
    for allof. They will be pretumbling forover. The harpsdischord
    shall be theirs for ollaves.
        Four things therefore, saith our herodotary Mammon Lujius 
    in his grand old historiorum, wrote near Boriorum, bluest book
    in baile's annals, f. t. in Dyffinarsky ne'er sall fail til heathersmoke
    and cloudweed Eire's ile sall pall. And here now they are, the fear
    of um. T. Totities! Unum. (Adar.) A bulbenboss surmounted up-
    on an alderman. Ay, ay! Duum. (Nizam.) A shoe on a puir old
    wobban. Ah, ho! Triom. (Tamuz.) An auburn mayde, o'brine
    a'bride, to be desarted. Adear, adear! Quodlibus. (Marchessvan.) A
    penn no weightier nor a polepost. And so. And all. (Succoth.)
        So, how idlers' wind turning pages on pages, as innocens with
    anaclete play popeye antipop, the leaves of the living in the boke
    of the deeds, annals of themselves timing the cycles of events
    grand and national, bring fassilwise to pass how.
        1132 A.D. Men like to ants or emmets wondern upon a groot 
    hwide Whallfisk which lay in a Runnel. Blubby wares upat Ub-
    lanium.
        566 A.D. On Baalfire's night of this year after deluge a crone that

14 UP

    hadde a wickered Kish for to hale dead turves from the bog look-
    it under the blay of her Kish as she ran for to sothisfeige her cow-
    rieosity and be me sawl but she found hersell sackvulle of swart
    goody quickenshoon and small illigant brogues, so rich in sweat.
    Blurry works at Hurdlesford.
                                                 (Silent.)
        566 A.D. At this time it fell out that a brazenlockt damsel grieved 
    (sobralasolas!) because that Puppette her minion was ravisht of her
    by the ogre Puropeus Pious. Bloody wars in Ballyaughacleeagh-
    bally.
        1132. A.D. Two sons at an hour were born until a goodman 
    and his hag. These sons called themselves Caddy and Primas.
    Primas was a santryman and drilled all decent people. Caddy
    went to Winehouse and wrote o peace a farce. Blotty words for
    Dublin.
        Somewhere, parently, in the ginnandgo gap between antedilu-
    vious and annadominant the copyist must have fled with his
    scroll. The billy flood rose or an elk charged him or the sultrup
    worldwright from the excelsissimost empyrean (bolt, in sum)
    earthspake or the Dannamen gallous banged pan the bliddy du-
    ran. A scribicide then and there is led off under old's code with
    some fine covered by six marks or ninepins in metalmen for the
    sake of his labour's dross while it will be only now and again in
    our rear of o'er era, as an upshoot of military and civil engage-
    ments, that a gynecure was let on to the scuffold for taking that
    same fine sum covertly by meddlement with the drawers of his
    neighbour's safe.
        Now after all that farfatch'd and peragrine or dingnant or clere 
    lift we our ears, eyes of the darkness, from the tome of Liber Li-
    vidus and, (toh!), how paisibly eirenical, all dimmering dunes
    and gloamering glades, selfstretches afore us our fredeland's plain!
    Lean neath stone pine the pastor lies with his crook; young pric-
    ket by pricket's sister nibbleth on returned viridities; amaid her
    rocking grasses the herb trinity shams lowliness; skyup is of ever-
    grey. Thus, too, for donkey's years. Since the bouts of Hebear
    and Hairyman the cornflowers have been staying at Ballymun,

15 UP

    the duskrose has choosed out Goatstown's hedges, twolips have
    pressed togatherthem by sweet Rush, townland of twinedlights,
    the whitethorn and the redthorn have fairygeyed the mayvalleys
    of Knockmaroon, and, though for rings round them, during a
    chiliad of perihelygangs, the Formoreans have brittled the too-
    ath of the Danes and the Oxman has been pestered by the Fire-
    bugs and the Joynts have thrown up jerrybuilding to the Kevan-
    ses and Little on the Green is childsfather to the City (Year!
    Year! And laughtears!), these paxsealing buttonholes have quad-
    rilled across the centuries and whiff now whafft to us, fresh and
    made-of-all-smiles as, on the eve of Killallwho.
        The babbelers with their thangas vain have been (confusium
    hold them!) they were and went; thigging thugs were and hou-
    hnhymn songtoms were and comely norgels were and pollyfool
    fiansees. Menn have thawed, clerks have surssurhummed, the
    blond has sought of the brune: Elsekiss thou may, mean Kerry
    piggy?: and the duncledames have countered with the hellish fel-
    lows: Who ails tongue coddeau, aspace of dumbillsilly? And they
    fell upong one another: and themselves they have fallen. And
    still nowanights and by nights of yore do all bold floras of the
    field to their shyfaun lovers say only: Cull me ere I wilt to thee!:
    and, but a little later: Pluck me whilst I blush! Well may they
    wilt, marry, and profusedly blush, be troth! For that saying is as
    old as the howitts. Lave a whale a while in a whillbarrow (isn't
    it the truath I'm tallin ye?) to have fins and flippers that shimmy
    and shake. Tim Timmycan timped hir, tampting Tam. Fleppety!
    Flippety! Fleapow!
        Hop!
        In the name of Anem this carl on the kopje in pelted thongs a
    parth a lone who the joebiggar be he? Forshapen his pigmaid
    hoagshead, shroonk his plodsfoot. He hath locktoes, this short-
    shins, and, Obeold that's pectoral, his mammamuscles most
    mousterious. It is slaking nuncheon out of some thing's brain
    pan. Me seemeth a dragon man. He is almonthst on the kiep
    fief by here, is Comestipple Sacksoun, be it junipery or febrew-
    ery, marracks or alebrill or the ramping riots of pouriose and

16 UP

    froriose. What a quhare soort of a mahan. It is evident the mich-
    indaddy. Lets we overstep his fire defences and these kraals of
    slitsucked marrogbones. (Cave!) He can prapsposterus the pil-
    lory way to Hirculos pillar. Come on, fool porterfull, hosiered
    women blown monk sewer? Scuse us, chorley guy! You toller-
    day donsk? N. You tolkatiff scowegian? Nn. You spigotty an-
    glease? Nnn. You phonio saxo? Nnnn. Clear all so! 'Tis a Jute.
    Let us swop hats and excheck a few strong verbs weak oach ea-
    ther yapyazzard abast the blooty creeks.
        Jute.       Yutah!
        Mutt.      Mukk's pleasurad.
        Jute.       Are you jeff?
        Mutt.      Somehards.
        Jute.       But you are not jeffmute?
        Mutt.      Noho. Only an utterer.
        Jute.       Whoa? Whoat is the mutter with you?
        Mutt.      I became a stun a stummer.
        Jute.       What a hauhauhauhaudibble thing, to be cause! How,
                      Mutt?
        Mutt.      Aput the buttle, surd.
        Jute.       Whose poddle? Wherein?
        Mutt.      The Inns of Dungtarf where Used awe to be he.
        Jute.       You that side your voise are almost inedible to me.
                      Become a bitskin more wiseable, as if I were
                      you.
        Mutt.      Has? Has at? Hasatency? Urp, Boohooru! Booru
                      Usurp! I trumple from rath in mine mines when I
                      rimimirim!
        Jute.       One eyegonblack. Bisons is bisons. Let me fore all
                      your hasitancy cross your qualm with trink gilt. Here
                      have sylvan coyne, a piece of oak. Ghinees hies good
                      for you.
        Mutt.      Louee, louee! How wooden I not know it, the intel-
                      lible greytcloak of Cedric Silkyshag! Cead mealy 
                      faulty rices for one dabblin bar. Old grilsy growlsy!
                      He was poached on in that eggtentical spot. Here

17 UP

                      where the liveries, Monomark. There where the mis-
                      sers moony, Minnikin passe.
        Jute.       Simply because as Taciturn pretells, our wrongstory-
                      shortener, he dumptied the wholeborrow of rubba-
                      ges on to soil here.
        Mutt.      Just how a puddinstone inat the brookcells by a
                      riverpool.
        Jute.       Load Allmarshy! Wid wad for a norse like?
        Mutt.      Somular with a bull on a clompturf. Rooks roarum
                      rex roome! I could snore to him of the spumy horn,
                      with his woolseley side in, by the neck I am sutton
                      on, did Brian d' of Linn.
        Jute.       Boildoyle and rawhoney on me when I can beuraly
                      forsstand a weird from sturk to finnic in such a pat-
                      what as your rutterdamrotter. Onheard of and um-
                      scene! Gut aftermeal! See you doomed.
        Mutt.      Quite agreem. Bussave a sec. Walk a dunblink 
                      roundward this albutisle and you skull see how olde 
                      ye plaine of my Elters, hunfree and ours, where wone 
                      to wail whimbrel to peewee o'er the saltings, where
                      wilby citie by law of isthmon, where by a droit of
                      signory, icefloe was from his Inn the Byggning to
                      whose Finishthere Punct. Let erehim ruhmuhrmuhr.
                      Mearmerge two races, swete and brack. Morthering 
                      rue. Hither, craching eastuards, they are in surgence:
                      hence, cool at ebb, they requiesce. Countlessness of
                      livestories have netherfallen by this plage, flick as
                      flowflakes, litters from aloft, like a waast wizzard all of 
                      whirlworlds. Now are all tombed to the mound, isges 
                      to isges, erde from erde. Pride, O pride, thy prize!
        Jute.       'Stench!
        Mutt.      Fiatfuit! Hereinunder lyethey. Llarge by the smal an'
                      everynight life olso th'estrange, babylone the great-
                      grandhotelled with tit tit tittlehouse, alp on earwig,
                      drukn on ild, likeas equal to anequal in this sound
                      seemetery which iz leebez luv.

18 UP

        Jute.       'Zmorde!
        Mutt.      Meldundleize! By the fearse wave behoughted. Des-
                      pond's sung. And thanacestross mound have swollup 
                      them all. This ourth of years is not save brickdust 
                      and being humus the same roturns. He who runes 
                      may rede it on all fours. O'c'stle, n'wc'stle, tr'c'stle,
                      crumbling! Sell me sooth the fare for Humblin! Hum-
                      blady Fair. But speak it allsosiftly, moulder! Be in
                      your whisht!
        Jute.       Whysht?
        Mutt.      The gyant Forficules with Amni the fay.
        Jute.       Howe?
        Mutt.      Here is viceking's graab.
        Jute.       Hwaad!
        Mutt.      Ore you astoneaged, jute you?
        Jute.       Oye am thonthorstrok, thing mud.
        (Stoop) if you are abcedminded, to this claybook, what curios 
    of signs (please stoop), in this allaphbed! Can you rede (since
    We and Thou had it out already) its world? It is the same told
    of all. Many. Miscegenations on miscegenations. Tieckle. They
    lived und laughed ant loved end left. Forsin. Thy thingdome is
    given to the Meades and Porsons. The meandertale, aloss and
    again, of our old Heidenburgh in the days when Head-in-Clouds
    walked the earth. In the ignorance that implies impression that
    knits knowledge that finds the nameform that whets the wits that
    convey contacts that sweeten sensation that drives desire that
    adheres to attachment that dogs death that bitches birth that en-
    tails the ensuance of existentiality. But with a rush out of his
    navel reaching the reredos of Ramasbatham. A terricolous vively-
    onview this; queer and it continues to be quaky. A hatch, a celt,
    an earshare the pourquose of which was to cassay the earthcrust at
    all of hours, furrowards, bagawards, like yoxen at the turnpaht.
    Here say figurines billycoose arming and mounting. Mounting and
    arming bellicose figurines see here. Futhorc, this liffle effingee is for
    a firefing called a flintforfall. Face at the eased! O I fay! Face at the
    waist! Ho, you fie! Upwap and dump em, ace to ace! When a

19 UP

    part so ptee does duty for the holos we soon grow to use of an
    allforabit. Here (please to stoop) are selveran cued peteet peas of
    quite a pecuniar interest inaslittle as they are the pellets that make
    the tomtummy's pay roll. Right rank ragnar rocks and with these
    rox orangotangos rangled rough and rightgorong. Wisha, wisha,
    whydidtha? Thik is for thorn that's thuck in its thoil like thum-
    fool's thraitor thrust for vengeance. What a mnice old mness it
    all mnakes! A middenhide hoard of objects! Olives, beets, kim-
    mells, dollies, alfrids, beatties, cormacks and daltons. Owlets' eegs
    (O stoop to please!) are here, creakish from age and all now
    quite epsilene, and oldwolldy wobblewers, haudworth a wipe o
    grass. Sss! See the snake wurrums everyside! Our durlbin is
    sworming in sneaks. They came to our island from triangular
    Toucheaterre beyond the wet prairie rared up in the midst of the
    cargon of prohibitive pomefructs but along landed Paddy Wip-
    pingham and the his garbagecans cotched the creeps of them
    pricker than our whosethere outofman could quick up her whats-
    thats. Somedivide and sumthelot but the tally turns round the
    same balifuson. Racketeers and bottloggers.
        Axe on thwacks on thracks, axenwise. One by one place one
    be three dittoh and one before. Two nursus one make a plaus-
    ible free and idim behind. Starting off with a big boaboa and three-
    legged calvers and ivargraine jadesses with a message in their
    mouths. And a hundreadfilled unleavenweight of liberorumqueue
    to con an we can till allhorrors eve. What a meanderthalltale to
    unfurl and with what an end in view of squattor and anntisquattor
    and postproneauntisquattor! To say too us to be every tim, nick
    and larry of us, sons of the sod, sons, littlesons, yea and lealittle-
    sons, when usses not to be, every sue, siss and sally of us, dugters
    of Nan! Accusative ahnsire! Damadam to infinities!
        True there was in nillohs dieybos as yet no lumpend papeer
    in the waste, and mightmountain Penn still groaned for the micies
    to let flee. All was of ancientry. You gave me a boot (signs on
    it!) and I ate the wind. I quizzed you a quid (with for what?) and
    you went to the quod. But the world, mind, is, was and will be
    writing its own wrunes for ever, man, on all matters that fall

20 UP

    under the ban of our infrarational senses fore the last milch-
    camel, the heartvein throbbing between his eyebrowns, has still to
    moor before the tomb of his cousin charmian where his date is
    tethered by the palm that's hers. But the horn, the drinking, the
    day of dread are not now. A bone, a pebble, a ramskin; chip them,
    chap them, cut them up allways; leave them to terracook in the
    muttheringpot: and Gutenmorg with his cromagnom charter,
    tintingfast and great primer must once for omniboss step rub-
    rickredd out of the wordpress else is there no virtue more in al-
    cohoran. For that (the rapt one warns) is what papyr is meed
    of, made of, hides and hints and misses in prints. Till ye finally
    (though not yet endlike) meet with the acquaintance of Mister
    Typus, Mistress Tope and all the little typtopies. Fillstup. So you
    need hardly spell me how every word will be bound over to carry
    three score and ten toptypsical readings throughout the book of
    Doublends Jined (may his forehead be darkened with mud who
    would sunder!) till Daleth, mahomahouma, who oped it closeth
    thereof the. Dor.
        Cry not yet! There's many a smile to Nondum, with sytty 
    maids per man, sir, and the park's so dark by kindlelight. But
    look what you have in your handself! The movibles are scrawl-
    ing in motions, marching, all of them ago, in pitpat and zingzang
    for every busy eerie whig's a bit of a torytale to tell. One's upon
    a thyme and two's behind their lettice leap and three's among the
    strubbely beds. And the chicks picked their teeths and the domb-
    key he begay began. You can ask your ass if he believes it. And
    so cuddy me only wallops have heels. That one of a wife with
    folty barnets. For then was the age when hoops ran high. Of a
    noarch and a chopwife; of a pomme full grave and a fammy of
    levity; or of golden youths that wanted gelding; or of what the
    mischievmiss made a man do. Malmarriedad he was reverso-
    gassed by the frisque of her frasques and her prytty pyrrhique.
    Maye faye, she's la gaye this snaky woman! From that trippiery
    toe expectungpelick! Veil, volantine, valentine eyes. She's the
    very besch Winnie blows Nay on good. Flou inn, flow ann.
    Hohore! So it's sure it was her not we! But lay it easy, gentle

21 UP

    mien, we are in rearing of a norewhig. So weenybeeny-
    veenyteeny. Comsy see! Hetwis if ee newt. Lissom! lissom!
    I am doing it. Hark, the corne entreats! And the larpnotes
    prittle.
        It was of a night, late, lang time agone, in an auldstane eld,
    when Adam was delvin and his madameen spinning watersilts,
    when mulk mountynotty man was everybully and the first leal
    ribberrobber that ever had her ainway everybuddy to his love-
    saking eyes and everybilly lived alove with everybiddy else, and
    Jarl van Hoother had his burnt head high up in his lamphouse,
    laying cold hands on himself. And his two little jiminies, cousins
    of ourn, Tristopher and Hilary, were kickaheeling their dummy
    on the oil cloth flure of his homerigh, castle and earthenhouse.
    And, be dermot, who come to the keep of his inn only the niece-
    of-his-in-law, the prankquean. And the prankquean pulled a rosy
    one and made her wit foreninst the dour. And she lit up and fire-
    land was ablaze. And spoke she to the dour in her petty perusi-
    enne: Mark the Wans, why do I am alook alike a poss of porter-
    pease? And that was how the skirtmisshes began. But the dour
    handworded her grace in dootch nossow: Shut! So her grace
    o'malice kidsnapped up the jiminy Tristopher and into the shan-
    dy westerness she rain, rain, rain. And Jarl van Hoother war-
    lessed after her with soft dovesgall: Stop deef stop come back to
    my earin stop. But she swaradid to him: Unlikelihud. And there
    was a brannewail that same sabboath night of falling angles some-
    where in Erio. And the prankquean went for her forty years'
    walk in Tourlemonde and she washed the blessings of the love-
    spots off the jiminy with soap sulliver suddles and she had her
    four owlers masters for to tauch him his tickles and she convor-
    ted him to the onesure allgood and he became a luderman. So then
    she started to rain and to rain and, be redtom, she was back again
    at Jarl van Hoother's in a brace of samers and the jiminy with
    her in her pinafrond, lace at night, at another time. And where
    did she come but to the bar of his bristolry. And Jarl von Hoo-
    ther had his baretholobruised heels drowned in his cellarmalt,
    shaking warm hands with himself and the jimminy Hilary and

22 UP

    the dummy in their first infancy were below on the tearsheet,
    wringing and coughing, like brodar and histher. And the prank-
    quean nipped a paly one and lit up again and redcocks flew flack-
    ering from the hillcombs. And she made her witter before the
    wicked, saying: Mark the Twy, why do I am alook alike two poss
    of porterpease? And: Shut! says the wicked, handwording her
    madesty. So her madesty aforethought set down a jiminy and
    took up a jiminy and all the lilipath ways to Woeman's Land she
    rain, rain, rain. And Jarl von Hoother bleethered atter her with
    a loud finegale: Stop domb stop come back with my earring stop.
    But the prankquean swaradid: Am liking it. And there was a wild
    old grannewwail that laurency night of starshootings somewhere
    in Erio. And the prankquean went for her forty years' walk in
    Turnlemeem and she punched the curses of cromcruwell with
    the nail of a top into the jiminy and she had her four larksical
    monitrix to touch him his tears and she provorted him to the
    onecertain allsecure and he became a tristian. So then she started
    raining, raining, and in a pair of changers, be dom ter, she was
    back again at Jarl von Hoother's and the Larryhill with her under
    her abromette. And why would she halt at all if not by the ward
    of his mansionhome of another nice lace for the third charm?
    And Jarl von Hoother had his hurricane hips up to his pantry-
    box, ruminating in his holdfour stomachs (Dare! O dare!), and
    the jiminy Toughertrees and the dummy were belove on the
    watercloth, kissing and spitting, and roguing and poghuing, like
    knavepaltry and naivebride and in their second infancy. And the
    prankquean picked a blank and lit out and the valleys lay twink-
    ling. And she made her wittest in front of the arkway of trihump,
    asking: Mark the Tris, why do I am alook alike three poss of por-
    ter pease? But that was how the skirtmishes endupped. For like
    the campbells acoming with a fork lance of lightning, Jarl von
    Hoother Boanerges himself, the old terror of the dames, came
    hip hop handihap out through the pikeopened arkway of his
    three shuttoned castles, in his broadginger hat and his civic chol-
    lar and his allabuff hemmed and his bullbraggin soxangloves
    and his ladbroke breeks and his cattegut bandolair and his fur-

23 UP

    framed panuncular cumbottes like a rudd yellan gruebleen or-
    angeman in his violet indigonation, to the whole longth of the
    strongth of his bowman's bill. And he clopped his rude hand to
    his eacy hitch and he ordurd and his thick spch spck for her to
    shut up shop, dappy. And the duppy shot the shutter clup (Per-
    kodhuskurunbarggruauyagokgorlayorgromgremmitghundhurth-
    rumathunaradidillifaititillibumullunukkunun!) And they all drank
    free. For one man in his armour was a fat match always for any
    girls under shurts. And that was the first peace of illiterative
    porthery in all the flamend floody flatuous world. How kirssy the
    tiler made a sweet unclose to the Narwhealian captol. Saw fore
    shalt thou sea. Betoun ye and be. The prankquean was to hold
    her dummyship and the jimminies was to keep the peacewave
    and van Hoother was to git the wind up. Thus the hearsomeness
    of the burger felicitates the whole of the polis.
        O foenix culprit! Ex nickylow malo comes mickelmassed bo-
    num. Hill, rill, ones in company, billeted, less be proud of. Breast
    high and bestride! Only for that these will not breathe upon
    Norronesen or Irenean the secrest of their soorcelossness. Quar-
    ry silex, Homfrie Noanswa! Undy gentian festyknees, Livia No-
    answa? Wolkencap is on him, frowned; audiurient, he would
    evesdrip, were it mous at hand, were it dinn of bottles in the far
    ear. Murk, his vales are darkling. With lipth she lithpeth to him
    all to time of thuch on thuch and thow on thow. She he she ho
    she ha to la. Hairfluke, if he could bad twig her! Impalpabunt,
    he abhears. The soundwaves are his buffeteers; they trompe him
    with their trompes; the wave of roary and the wave of hooshed
    and the wave of hawhawhawrd and the wave of neverheedthem-
    horseluggarsandlisteltomine. Landloughed by his neaghboormis-
    tress and perpetrified in his offsprung, sabes and suckers, the
    moaning pipers could tell him to his faceback, the louthly one
    whose loab we are devorers of, how butt for his hold halibutt, or
    her to her pudor puff, the lipalip one whose libe we drink at, how
    biff for her tiddywink of a windfall, our breed and washer givers,
    there would not be a holey spier on the town nor a vestal flout-
    ing in the dock, nay to make plein avowels, nor a yew nor an eye

24 UP

    to play cash cash in Novo Nilbud by swamplight nor a' toole o'
    tall o' toll and noddy hint to the convaynience.
        He dug in and dug out by the skill of his tilth for himself and
    all belonging to him and he sweated his crew beneath his auspice
    for the living and he urned his dread, that dragon volant, and he
    made louse for us and delivered us to boll weevils amain, that
    mighty liberator, Unfru-Chikda-Uru-Wukru and begad he did,
    our ancestor most worshipful, till he thought of a better one in
    his windower's house with that blushmantle upon him from ears-
    end to earsend. And would again could whispring grassies wake
    him and may again when the fiery bird disembers. And will
    again if so be sooth by elder to his youngers shall be said. Have
    you whines for my wedding, did you bring bride and bedding,
    will you whoop for my deading is a? Wake? Usgueadbaugham!
        Anam muck an dhoul! Did ye drink me doornail?
        Now be aisy, good Mr Finnimore, sir. And take your laysure 
    like a god on pension and don't be walking abroad. Sure you'd
    only lose yourself in Healiopolis now the way your roads in
    Kapelavaster are that winding there after the calvary, the North
    Umbrian and the Fivs Barrow and Waddlings Raid and the
    Bower Moore and wet your feet maybe with the foggy dew's
    abroad. Meeting some sick old bankrupt or the Cottericks' donkey
    with his shoe hanging, clankatachankata, or a slut snoring with an
    impure infant on a bench. 'Twould turn you against life, so
    'twould. And the weather's that mean too. To part from Devlin
    is hard as Nugent knew, to leave the clean tanglesome one lushier
    than its neighbour enfranchisable fields but let your ghost have
    no grievance. You're better off, sir, where you are, primesigned
    in the full of your dress, bloodeagle waistcoat and all, remember-
    ing your shapes and sizes on the pillow of your babycurls under
    your sycamore by the keld water where the Tory's clay will scare
    the varmints and have all you want, pouch, gloves, flask, bricket,
    kerchief, ring and amberulla, the whole treasure of the pyre, in the
    land of souls with Homin and Broin Baroke and pole ole Lonan
    and Nobucketnozzler and the Guinnghis Khan. And we'll be
    coming here, the ombre players, to rake your gravel and bringing

25 UP

    you presents, won't we, fenians? And it isn't our spittle we'll stint
    you of, is it, druids? Not shabbty little imagettes, pennydirts and
    dodgemyeyes you buy in the soottee stores. But offerings of the
    field. Mieliodories, that Doctor Faherty, the madison man,
    taught to gooden you. Poppypap's a passport out. And honey is
    the holiest thing ever was, hive, comb and earwax, the food for
    glory, (mind you keep the pot or your nectar cup may yield too
    light!) and some goat's milk, sir, like the maid used to bring you.
    Your fame is spreading like Basilico's ointment since the Fintan
    Lalors piped you overborder and there's whole households be-
    yond the Bothnians and they calling names after you. The men-
    here's always talking of you sitting around on the pig's cheeks
    under the sacred rooftree, over the bowls of memory where every
    hollow holds a hallow, with a pledge till the drengs, in the Salmon
    House. And admiring to our supershillelagh where the palmsweat
    on high is the mark of your manument. All the toethpicks ever
    Eirenesians chewed on are chips chepped from that battery
    block. If you were bowed and soild and letdown itself from the
    oner of the load it was that paddyplanters might pack up plenty and
    when you were undone in every point fore the laps of goddesses
    you showed our labourlasses how to free was easy. The game old
    Gunne, they do be saying, (skull!) that was a planter for you, a
    spicer of them all. Begog but he was, the G.O.G! He's dudd-
    andgunne now and we're apter finding the sores of his sedeq
    but peace to his great limbs, the buddhoch, with the last league
    long rest of him, while the millioncandled eye of Tuskar sweeps
    the Moylean Main! There was never a warlord in Great Erinnes
    and Brettland, no, nor in all Pike County like you, they say. No,
    nor a king nor an ardking, bung king, sung king or hung king.
    That you could fell an elmstree twelve urchins couldn't ring
    round and hoist high the stone that Liam failed. Who but a Mac-
    cullaghmore the reise of our fortunes and the faunayman at the
    funeral to compass our cause? If you was hogglebully itself and
    most frifty like you was taken waters still what all where was
    your like to lay the cable or who was the batter could better
    Your Grace? Mick Mac Magnus MacCawley can take you off to

26 UP

    the pure perfection and Leatherbags Reynolds tries your shuffle
    and cut. But as Hopkins and Hopkins puts it, you were the pale
    eggynaggy and a kis to tilly up. We calls him the journeyall
    Buggaloffs since he went Jerusalemfaring in Arssia Manor. You
    had a gamier cock than Pete, Jake or Martin and your archgoose
    of geese stubbled for All Angels' Day. So may the priest of seven
    worms and scalding tayboil, Papa Vestray, come never anear you
    as your hair grows wheater beside the Liffey that's in Heaven!
    Hep, hep, hurrah there! Hero! Seven times thereto we salute
    you! The whole bag of kits, falconplumes and jackboots incloted,
    is where you flung them that time. Your heart is in the system
    of the Shewolf and your crested head is in the tropic of Copri-
    capron. Your feet are in the cloister of Virgo. Your olala is in the
    region of sahuls. And that's ashore as you were born. Your shuck
    tick's swell. And that there texas is tow linen. The loamsome
    roam to Laffayette is ended. Drop in your tracks, babe! Be not
    unrested! The headboddylwatcher of the chempel of Isid,
    Totumcalmum, saith: I know thee, metherjar, I know thee, sal-
    vation boat. For we have performed upon thee, thou abrama-
    nation, who comest ever without being invoked, whose coming
    is unknown, all the things which the company of the precentors
    and of the grammarians of Christpatrick's ordered concerning
    thee in the matter of the work of thy tombing. Howe of the ship-
    men, steep wall!
        Everything's going on the same or so it appeals to all of us,
    in the old holmsted here. Coughings all over the sanctuary, bad
    scrant to me aunt Florenza. The horn for breakfast, one o'gong
    for lunch and dinnerchime. As popular as when Belly the First
    was keng and his members met in the Diet of Man. The same
    shop slop in the window. Jacob's lettercrackers and Dr Tipple's
    Vi-Cocoa and the Eswuards' desippated soup beside Mother Sea-
    gull's syrup. Meat took a drop when Reilly-Parsons failed. Coal's
    short but we've plenty of bog in the yard. And barley's up again,
    begrained to it. The lads is attending school nessans regular, sir,
    spelling beesknees with hathatansy and turning out tables by
    mudapplication. Allfor the books and never pegging smashers

27 UP

    after Tom Bowe Glassarse or Timmy the Tosser. 'Tisraely the
    truth! No isn't it, roman pathoricks? You were the doublejoynted
    janitor the morning they were delivered and you'll be a grandfer
    yet entirely when the ritehand seizes what the lovearm knows.
    Kevin's just a doat with his cherub cheek, chalking oghres on
    walls, and his little lamp and schoolbelt and bag of knicks, playing
    postman's knock round the diggings and if the seep were milk
    you could lieve his olde by his ide but, laus sake, the devil does
    be in that knirps of a Jerry sometimes, the tarandtan plaidboy,
    making encostive inkum out of the last of his lavings and writing
    a blue streak over his bourseday shirt. Hetty Jane's a child of
    Mary. She'll be coming (for they're sure to choose her) in her
    white of gold with a tourch of ivy to rekindle the flame on Felix
    Day. But Essie Shanahan has let down her skirts. You remember
    Essie in our Luna's Convent? They called her Holly Merry her
    lips were so ruddyberry and Pia de Purebelle when the redminers
    riots was on about her. Were I a clerk designate to the Williams-
    woodsmenufactors I'd poster those pouters on every jamb in the
    town. She's making her rep at Lanner's twicenightly. With the
    tabarine tamtammers of the whirligigmagees. Beats that cachucha
    flat. 'Twould dilate your heart to go.
        Aisy now, you decent man, with your knees and lie quiet and
    repose your honour's lordship! Hold him here, Ezekiel Irons, and
    may God strengthen you! It's our warm spirits, boys, he's spoor-
    ing. Dimitrius O'Flagonan, cork that cure for the Clancartys! You
    swamped enough since Portobello to float the Pomeroy. Fetch
    neahere, Pat Koy! And fetch nouyou, Pam Yates! Be nayther
    angst of Wramawitch! Here's lumbos. Where misties swaddlum,
    where misches lodge none, where mystries pour kind on, O
    sleepy! So be yet!
        I've an eye on queer Behan and old Kate and the butter, trust me.
    She'll do no jugglywuggly with her war souvenir postcards to
    help to build me murial, tippers! I'll trip your traps! Assure a
    sure there! And we put on your clock again, sir, for you. Did or
    didn't we, sharestutterers? So you won't be up a stump entirely.
    Nor shed your remnants. The sternwheel's crawling strong. I

28 UP

    seen your missus in the hall. Like the queenoveire. Arrah, it's
    herself that's fine, too, don't be talking! Shirksends? You storyan
    Harry chap longa me Harry chap storyan grass woman plelthy
    good trout. Shakeshands. Dibble a hayfork's wrong with her only
    her lex's salig. Boald Tib does be yawning and smirking cat's
    hours on the Pollockses' woolly round tabouretcushion watch-
    ing her sewing a dream together, the tailor's daughter, stitch to
    her last. Or while waiting for winter to fire the enchantement,
    decoying more nesters to fall down the flue. It's allavalonche that
    blows nopussy food. If you only were there to explain the mean-
    ing, best of men, and talk to her nice of guldenselver. The lips
    would moisten once again. As when you drove with her to Fin-
    drinny Fair. What with reins here and ribbons there all your
    hands were employed so she never knew was she on land or at
    sea or swooped through the blue like Airwinger's bride. She
    was flirtsome then and she's fluttersome yet. She can second a
    song and adores a scandal when the last post's gone by. Fond of
    a concertina and pairs passing when she's had her forty winks
    for supper after kanekannan and abbely dimpling and is in her
    merlin chair assotted, reading her Evening World. To see is
    it smarts, full lengths or swaggers. News, news, all the news.
    Death, a leopard, kills fellah in Fez. Angry scenes at Stormount.
    Stilla Star with her lucky in goingaways. Opportunity fair with
    the China floods and we hear these rosy rumours. Ding Tams he
    noise about all same Harry chap. She's seeking her way, a chickle
    a chuckle, in and out of their serial story, Les Loves of Selskar
    et Pervenche, freely adapted to The Novvergin's Viv. There'll
    be bluebells blowing in salty sepulchres the night she signs her
    final tear. Zee End. But that's a world of ways away. Till track
    laws time. No silver ash or switches for that one! While flattering
    candles flare. Anna Stacey's how are you! Worther waist in the
    noblest, says Adams and Sons, the wouldpay actionneers. Her
    hair's as brown as ever it was. And wivvy and wavy. Repose you
    now! Finn no more!
        For, be that samesake sibsubstitute of a hooky salmon, there's
    already a big rody ram lad at random on the premises of his

29 UP

    haunt of the hungred bordles, as it is told me. Shop Illicit,
    flourishing like a lordmajor or a buaboabaybohm, litting flop
    a deadlop (aloose!) to lee but lifting a bennbranch a yardalong
    (Ivoeh!) the breezy side (for showm!), the height of Brew-
    ster's chimpney and as broad below as Phineas Barnum; humph-
    ing his share of the showthers is senken on him he's such a
    grandfallar, with a pocked wife in pickle that's a flyfire and three
    lice nittle clinkers, two twilling bugs and one midgit pucelle.
    And aither he cursed and recursed and was everseen doing what
    your fourfootlers saw or he was never done seeing what you cool-
    pigeons know, weep the clouds aboon for smiledown witnesses,
    and that'll do now about the fairyhees and the frailyshees.
    Though Eset fibble it to the zephiroth and Artsa zoom it round
    her heavens for ever. Creator he has created for his creatured
    ones a creation. White monothoid? Red theatrocrat? And all the
    pinkprophets cohalething? Very much so! But however 'twas
    'tis sure for one thing, what sherif Toragh voucherfors and
    Mapqiq makes put out, that the man, Humme the Cheapner,
    Esc, overseen as we thought him, yet a worthy of the naym,
    came at this timecoloured place where we live in our paroqial
    fermament one tide on another, with a bumrush in a hull of a
    wherry, the twin turbane dhow, The Bey for Dybbling, this
    archipelago's first visiting schooner, with a wicklowpattern
    waxenwench at her prow for a figurehead, the deadsea dugong
    updipdripping from his depths, and has been repreaching him-
    self like a fishmummer these siktyten years ever since, his shebi
    by his shide, adi and aid, growing hoarish under his turban and
    changing cane sugar into sethulose starch (Tuttut's cess to him!)
    as also that, batin the bulkihood he bloats about when innebbi-
    ated, our old offender was humile, commune and ensectuous
    from his nature, which you may gauge after the bynames was
    put under him, in lashons of languages, (honnein suit and
    praisers be!) and, totalisating him, even hamissim of himashim
    that he, sober serious, he is ee and no counter he who will be
    ultimendly respunchable for the hubbub caused in Eden-
    borough. 
